On March 5, 1770, Redcoat troops fired into a crowd of Bostonians, killing five and wounding several others. To understand this event, which became known as the Boston massacre, we have to understand a few more things about what's happening in Boston at the time. By 1770, one out of every five residents of Boston is a british soldier. The soldiers are here to compel the people of Massachusetts to pay their taxes to help reduce the debt incurred during the french and indian war. But there's another reason why the people of Boston dislike these soldiers so much. When soldiers are not on duty, they're allowed to do anything they want as long as it's legal, including look for work. And there are so many british soldiers willing to work as day laborers that they have reduced the price of labor in the city of Boston. So not only are Bostonians paying taxes they'd rather not pay, but they are now earning less money to be able to pay those taxes.



Three days before the Boston massacre, on Friday, March 2, a group of soldiers from the 29th Regiment are walking near the Boston harbor. A group of rope makers at Gray's Ropewalk see the soldiers at some distance, and one calls to them, soldiers, will you work? The soldiers answered in the affirmative, and the rope maker called back, well, then, why don't you go and clean my small house? Now, to understand this insult, you have to realize that the smallest house you would have on your property in the 1770s would be an outhouse. 



After receiving this insult, the soldiers engage the rope makers in a street fight, and the rope makers beat the soldiers soundly. Later that day, the soldiers returned with clubs and reinforcements, and they will again engage the rope makers. More rope makers will pour out from the building, and they will again fight and beat the British. 



Over the weekend, tempers will simmer, and on Monday, March 5, when the rope makers are walking home from work, they pass the customs house. Standing in front of the Customs house is a single british soldier standing as a sentry. They recognize him as one of the soldiers that they fought with on the Friday before, and they will begin to taunt him. Now, they understand that this soldier is not allowed to fire his musket, except he has been given an order by his superior officer or if his life is immediately in danger. And now they will call to him, challenging him to fire. Now that he is armed and they are not, perhaps he can prevail in the fight. 



As these rope makers begin to shout taunts, other colonists, on hearing the commotion, will come and gather. By the time there's about 30 colonists gathered, the soldier now is very nervous, and he pounds on the customs house door and asks for help to be sent. 



His commanding officer, Captain Preston, will be notified, and he will join the single soldier with seven other soldiers. By the time Captain Preston and his men arrive, there are now nearly 100 colonists gathered. The colonists are throwing insults, challenging the soldiers to fire at them. Some colonists are throwing snowballs made of snow with ice, rocks, and oyster shells. 



We're not sure why the first musket fired, but after it was fired, the other soldiers also fired theirs.



Three colonists die immediately. Several others are wounded, two of which will die in the coming days. Under the confusion of the fired shots, Captain Preston extracts his eight soldiers, and the colonists tend to the wounded. Before the colonists can make a response to the firing, Lieutenant Governor Thomas Hutchinson will address the crowd, promising that there would be a fair trial to punish those that had spilled the blood of the sons of Boston. 



Knowing how important it was to demonstrate to the crown that the people of Massachusetts were a people of law and order, John Adams consented to defend the british soldiers in their trial. Six of the soldiers were acquitted outright. Two soldiers, privates Montgomery and Kilroy, were convicted not of murder, but of the lesser charge of manslaughter. Ultimately, the two soldiers will receive a punishment of being branded on the thumb.

