During the Stamp Act crisis, Americans asserted that, because they were not represented in Parliament, that Parliament had no right to tax them.



With the repeal of the Stamp Act, Parliament declared that they did have the authority to assess taxes in the colonies, subsequently passing the Townshend duties in 1767, which were taxes on named commodities such as led, glass, paper, paint, and tea.



The colonists resisted the duties violently and they were all repealed--except for the tax on tea. In response, the colonists boycotted tea which had this tax, either giving up imported tea altogether or relying on tea smuggled by Dutch merchants. The boycott was not because tax made the tea too expensive, it was because the colonists knew that voluntarily paying the tax was a form of giving their consent, thus acknowledging that Parliament had the authority to tax the colonies--even though they had no representation in the legislative body.



In 1773, Parliament had a problem. The British East-India company, in which many members of parliament were heavily invested, was on the verge of financial ruin. Although it had millions of tons of tea warehoused in India, duties that were collected on its sale were so high, that it was not profitable to ship it to European or American markets. To keep the company solvent, Parliament removed all duties, except the small duty to be collected in American ports. This would make East-India tea very inexpensive...even less expensive than smuggled Dutch tea.



American radicals saw this act as a move by parliament to trick colonists into giving their consent to be taxed without representation. However, they worried that the cheap tea would entice many colonists to act in their short-term interest without giving full thought to the long-term implications of so manifesting their assent to the tax by paying it voluntarily. 



Throughout the colonies, public meetings were held to discuss the dangers of allowing East-India tea to be sold in the colonies. Ships laden with the tea were turned back from harbors in New York and Philadelphia...but Governor Hutchinson of Massachusetts was determined to land the tea in Boston.



This handbill was printed anonymously to remind the citizens of Boston that the people had voted that the tea should not be landed and that they would not pay one farthing of duty. This document was printed two weeks before the tea on the Elanor, the Beaver, and the Dartmouth, was destroyed during the Boston Tea Party.